# Explore file storage
> That central storage location is hosted in the cloud, enabling cost-effective, secure, and reliable storage for large volumes of data.
>
> The specific file format used to store data depends on a number of factors, including:
> - The type of data being stored (structured, semi-structured, or unstructured).
> - The applications and services that will need to read, write, and process the data.
> - The need for the data files to be readable by humans, or optimized for efficient storage and processing.

## Delimited text files
- Data is frequently stored in plain text format using specific symbols to separate different fields and mark the end of each row.
-  The most common format for delimited data is comma-separated values (CSV) in which fields are separated by commas, and rows are terminated by a carriage return / new line.
- Example:
  ```
  FirstName,LastName,Email
  Joe,Jones,joe@litware.com
  Samir,Nadoy,samir@northwind.com
  ```

## JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
- JSON is a widely used format where data entities (objects) are defined using a hierarchical document schema. These entities have various attributes that describe them.

## Extensible Markup Language (XML)
- XML is a human-readable data format that was popular in the 1990s and 2000s.
-  It's largely been superseded by the less verbose JSON format.

## Binary Large Object (BLOB)
- All files are stored as binary data (1's and 0's).
- Common types of data stored as binary include images, video, audio, and application-specific documents.

## Optimized file formats
- Over time, some specialized file formats that enable compression, indexing, and efficient storage and processing have been developed.
Some common optimized file formats you might see include *Avro*, *ORC*, and *Parquet*