# Identify data services

## Azure SQL
-  **Azure SQL** is the collective name for a family of relational database solutions based on the Microsoft SQL Server database engine
- Azure SQL Database.
- Azure SQL Managed Instance.
- Azure SQL VM.

## Azure Database for open-source relational databases
- Azure Database for MySQL.
- Azure Database for MariaDB.
- Azure Database for PostgreSQL.

## Azure Cosmos DB
- **Azure Cosmos DB** is a global-scale non-relational (NoSQL) database system.
- Supports multiple application programming interfaces (APIs), enabling you to store and manage data as JSON documents, key-value pairs, column-families, and graphs.

## Azure Storage
- Azure Storage is a core Azure service that enables you to store data in:
  - **Blob containers** - scalable, cost-effective storage for binary files.
  - **File shares** - network file shares such as you typically find in corporate networks.
  - **Tables** - key-value storage for applications that need to read and write data values quickly.

## Azure Data Factory
- **Azure Data Factory** is an Azure service that enables you to define and schedule data pipelines to transfer and transform data.

- Azure Data Factory is used by data engineers to build extract, transform, and load (ETL) solutions that populate analytical data stores with data from transactional systems across the organization.

## Azure Synapse Analytics
- **Azure Synapse Analytics** is a comprehensive, unified Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) solution for data analytics that provides a single service interface for multiple analytical capabilities, including:
  - **Pipelines** - based on the same technology as Azure Data Factory.
  - **SQL** - a highly scalable SQL database engine, optimized for data warehouse workloads.
  - **Apache Spark** - an open-source distributed data processing system that supports multiple programming languages and APIs, including Java, Scala, Python, and SQL.
  - **Azure Synapse Data Explorer** - a high-performance data analytics solution that is optimized for real-time querying of log and telemetry data using Kusto Query Language (KQL).

## Azure Databricks
- **Azure Databricks** is an Azure-integrated version of the popular Databricks platform.

## Azure HDInsight
-  **Azure HDInsight** is an Azure service that provides Azure-hosted clusters for popular Apache open-source big data processing technologies, including:
    - **Apache Spark** - a distributed data processing system that supports multiple programming languages and APIs, including Java, Scala, Python, and SQL.
    - **Apache Hadoop** - a distributed system that uses MapReduce jobs to process large volumes of data efficiently across multiple cluster nodes. MapReduce jobs can be written in Java or abstracted by interfaces such as Apache Hive - a SQL-based API that runs on Hadoop.
    - **Apache HBase** - an open-source system for large-scale NoSQL data storage and querying.
    - **Apache Kafka** - a message broker for data stream processing.

## Azure Stream Analytics
- **Azure Stream Analytics** is a real-time stream processing engine that captures a stream of data from an input, applies a query to extract and manipulate data from the input stream, and writes the results to an output for analysis or further processing.

## Azure Data Explorer
- **Azure Data Explorer** is a standalone service that offers the same high-performance querying of log and telemetry data as the Azure Synapse Data Explorer runtime in Azure Synapse Analytics.

## Microsoft Purview
- **Microsoft Purview** provides a solution for enterprise-wide data governance and discoverability.

## Microsoft Fabric
- **Microsoft Fabric** is a unified Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) analytics platform based on open and governed lakehouse that includes functionality to support:

  - Data ingestion and ETL
  - Data lakehouse analytics
  - Data warehouse analytics
  - Data Science and machine learning
  - Realtime analytics
  - Data visualization
  - Data governance and management
